Post-Masters Certificate: Data Curation - The Data Curation emphasis within the Post-Masters Certificate (PMC) program aims to educate information professionals in libraries, archives, government agencies and corporations or businesses who are responsible for managing and preserving the data assets of the organization. We expect graduates to serve as leaders in those organizations and to be active participants in defining data curation standards and practices. The curriculum includes advanced courses that prepare students to understand the statutory, economic, and technical issues related to data creation, dissemination, use and reuse and preservation in organizations.    The Data Curation program consists of two introductory courses taken on campus over a two (2) week period, six courses taken online over subsequent semesters, and two project-oriented independent studies related to the student’s current or desired work environment.  Faculty teaching the courses for the Post Master's Program include award-winning scholars:   Dr. Helen Tibbo, Alumni Distinguished Professor; Dr. Reagan Moore, Professor, Chief Domain Scientist, Data Intensive Cyber Environments group; Dr. Arcot Rajasekar, Professor, Chief Domain Scientist, Data Grid Technologies; Dr. Christopher (Cal) Lee, Frances Carroll McColl Term Professor

Prepares students to be conversant with information technologies that underlie digital collections in order to evaluate the work of developers, delegate tasks, write requests for proposals, and establish policies and procedures. Teaches students how to think about information technology systems and recognize and manage interdependencies between parts of the systems.
Exploration of an introductory-level special topic not otherwise covered in the curriculum. Previous offering of these courses does not predict their future availability; new courses may replace these. A list of previous special topic courses is available
Prerequisite: INLS 261 for undergraduates. Design and implementation of database systems. Semantic modeling, relational database theory, including normalization, query construction, and SQL.
Students will develop policies for managing digital repositories and persistent archives. The rules will be implemented in the integrated Rule-Oriented Data System (iRODS), which organizes distributed data into shareable collections. 
Permission of the instructor. Study by an individual student on a special topic under the direction of a specific faculty member. (1-3, repeatable; 6 credit maximum for master's students.)
Permission of the instructor. Study by an individual student on a special topic under the direction of a specific faculty member. (1-3, repeatable; 6 credit maximum for master's students.)
Prerequisite: INLS 520 or 509. Examines metadata in the digital environment. Emphasizes the development and implementation of metadata schemas in distinct information communities and the standards and technological applications used to create machine understandable metadata.
Research and development issues in digital libraries, including collection development and digitization; mixed mode holdings; access strategies and interfaces; metadata and interoperability; economic and social policies; and management and evaluation. 
Focuses on best practices for the creation, provision, and long-term preservation of digital entities. Topics include digitization technologies; standards and quality control: digital asset management; grant writing; and metadata.
Course Descriptions - This page contains descriptions for all courses regularly offered at SILS (special topics courses are listed separately). Not all courses are offered each semester; see the course schedule for availability.   Many previous course syllabi are located in our syllabus archives - scroll to the semester and to the course number to find a particular syllabus.  If you cannot find a previous syllabus (an example might be a new special topics course) you should feel free to contact the instructor for more details.    Prerequisites. When a prerequisite or corequisite is listed for a course, it may be assumed that an equivalent course taken elsewhere or permission of instructor also fulfills the prerequisite.
Digital Forensics for Curation of Digital Collections (3 credits) - This course addresses common storage devices and interfaces; write-blocking equipment and its role in acquisition of data; levels of representation; basic file system structure; role and importance of hash values and hex views of bitstreams; software used to conduct forensics tasks; considerations for incorporating forensics into curation workflows; and legal and ethical issues. Offered in the fall. 