A two-year international programme providing a combination of theoretical knowledge and practical training that will equip students to manage and curate the digital information & digital assets of organizations across the public and private sectors. Students study for one year at each of King’s and Humboldt University Berlin, and choose from an exceptional range of options covering different aspects of digital curation.
Moving from information, the data in a text, sound or video file, to knowledge, the use of it in practice, is key to the effective management of any system for digital assets and media.  This module provides an understanding of the importance of metadata approaches and schemes, of architectures for modelling and representing information, and of the technologies available for developing systems that implement these architectures and schemes. The module includes an overview of the current state-of-the-art in the field of systems and architectures and metadata, addressing for both a range of theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches and drawing on practice in digital libraries, digital archives and commercial enterprises. Students will be introduced to key concepts in the design and specification of asset and media management systems such as the concept of stakeholders, workflow management and to the use of metadata for digital assets emphasizing the importance of user-centric metadata design.  In this way, we will build an understanding of the process of developing digital asset and information management systems through the application of analytical, interpretation and communication skills. At the end of the module, students will have learned how to specify and manage the implementation of digital asset management systems, one of the key requirements for a successful career in the industry. Students will also become familiar, through a mix of lectures and practical seminar work, with key metadata standards and their application, including advanced ones such as METS, MODS and PREMIS. The module stresses the continued, if not growing, importance of system development and metadata in the age of Google and web-based information. The module is taught by tutors with a vast experience in implementing projects for academic research and enterprise as well as experts in the domain of metadata and computational approaches to digital content who serve on various standards committee as well as advisory boards.
The content industry is a huge market and integrated into our everyday lives in the digital economy. Because of the vast amounts and different types of digital content used by the organisations that make up the content industry, effective information management is essential. This module addresses the complex task of managing, exploiting and disseminating all the digital assets used by content industries: including mass media (music, movies etc), publishing, Web industries, advertising, art, fashion, performing arts, video games and the cultural and heritage sectors. The teaching staff have vast experience in the digital economy and management of digital content: whether running digital archives, providing digital consultancy or conducting project management for media companies and broadcasting. The module includes an overview of the current state-of-the-art in the field, and will address a range of theoretical perspectives and methodological approaches. It will also present a number of case studies, based on real-life examples from media, publishing, commerce, digital archives and research, which are representative of using digital assets in the content industry. We discuss content regulation, Intellectual Property Rights issues and the economics of the digital domain. 
Many modern media applications are driven by the management of large amounts of digital assets. This is particularly true for new social media applications where this data is to be consumed, amended and enhanced by web users to build up a social web of data. This module aims to provide an understanding of the potential and place of new developments in social media for digital content. We will cover the roles digital content can play in a wide range of applications from open data on the web for social media, recent semantic web developments to mobile and cloud computing.  An important part of our discussion will also be recent developments in the big data domain, as they are closely linked to social media. Our focus will be less on the technologies but on understanding the process of developing open digital media ecosystems to publish digital content on a range of emerging platforms and to transform it into smart media assets. Practical work in the past years included, for instance, the design of crowd sourcing mobile phone applications. Experts from digital media bodies will be invited to present their work that brings together crowds and clouds into dynamic new online environments. In 2013, for instance, the BBC Future Services and Media team presented their work.
This module will provide students with the necessary knowledge and skills to ensure that they are able to understand, evaluate, and apply the various approaches to curating and preserving digital culture. The students will explore theories of memory, curation and preservation and apply this theory in (a) the critical analysis of contemporary actors and institutions in the field and (b) to existing digital curation and preservation policies. The module includes an overview of the current state of the art in the field. Students will examine a number of case studies and ‘real life’ example of curation and preservation practices and challenges, which are representative across a range of new media objects from digital texts and images to sounds and multi-media.
This module will provide students with the opportunity to explore both theoretical and practical aspects of digital media, data and information in marketing, and to address the key position of digital technologies within modern marketing practice and business ecosystems. It will examine the uses and roles of a variety of digital technologies in marketing, allowing them to understand the computational processes by which these technologies operate, and thus to evaluate better the effectiveness and consequences of such methods and approaches, while examining related economic, social, political and ethical issues. As the module does not assume a background in marketing, the first part of the module will cover an introduction to marketing, with a particular focus on digital marketing and data-driven marketing.
The internship module complements the classroom-based theoretical approaches taken in the core and optional modules, the internship allows students to observe, participate in and analyse at first-hand digital asset management in the workplace, to gain professional work experience in the field and develop transferable skills. Where relevant the internship may also feed into dissertation research, with the host organisation serving as a case study.For this module students are required at the start of the academic year to inform programme staff of their interests, career goals and previous work experience, and to attend a series of internship seminars. With help from staff in DDH, CMCI, CeRch, the Careers Office and King’s College London Business, students are then expected to work towards finding a suitable Internship in an organisation in one of the following sectors: Arts & Cultural Sector; Libraries, Archives & Museums; Digital Media Companies; Publishing Houses; IT & Telecoms. Internships roles can centred on any of the following (list not exhaustive): Digitisation; Visualisation; Digital Media; Digital Social Media; Libraries & Archives; Curating & Collections; Research; Education & Technology; Electronic Publishing.The internship must last no less than 30 working days in total, in order to allow sufficient time for the student to develop a basic understanding of the host organisation, to make a significant contribution to the organisation and to develop relevant skills. After completing the internship, students are required to produce for academic examination a report and oral presentation.

Highly structured data used to be undervalued by the digital humanities community, where the focus was primarily on digital text and markup. In more recent years, however, the value of the representation of humanities material as structured, interconnected objects has been coming more into its own, and this has grown in importance with the recent emergence of the ideas of linked data and the semantic web. This module introduces the process of identifying and creating structured data, and explores its significance to the humanities. It contains two interconnected elements, each presented each week: (a) an introduction to formal structured data and analysis through its representation first on the relational database and then on RDF and its related semantic web technologies, focusing specifically and at length on analysis of suitable problems in the humanities and the designing of data structures that best handle them. (b) a seminar on questions that arise from the representation of humanities materials in this form. Topics can range from structured data and reductionism to the role of GIS systems in supporting historical scholarship. The scholarly and technical methods covered in this module are directly relevant to all fields in which complex structured data feature as primary source material, eg: history and other historical disciplines such as art history, archaeology, philological literary studies, linguistics. However, structured data is one of the underpinnings of all computer systems, including things like Google and Facebook, and a mature understanding of highly structured data in all its forms will be valuable to anyone interested in the digital phenomena not only in the humanities, but also in the culture as a whole. 
This module is a practically-oriented introduction to technologies used in scholarly text editing and digital publication, notably XML, TEI and XSLT. These technologies support a dynamic view of text: where word processors create static texts that are identical to their presentation, dynamic texts can be presented in many ways, and lend themselves better to querying and mining. This approach requires new ways to create the texts themselves and specialised tools for processing them. The module also provides students with a theoretical understanding of the issues and implications in the use of text encoding methodologies for cultural heritage texts.
The World Wide Web has transformed the way in which people carry out research, create knowledge and communicate their opinions. Web technologies are constantly evolving and a wide range of different ‘actors’ influence their development. Although academia has been relatively slow to adapt to web technologies, they are becoming not just a crucial feature of academic life, but also an opportunity to engage with new audiences, from the initial design of our research to its final publication and dissemination. A basic training in how the Web works is not only a prerequisite for many professionals seeking a broad understanding of how dynamic web and mobile content can transform content; it is also an essential precondition for appraising web culture critically. This module provides both the technical skills to create web-based resources and the critical tools to explore the opportunities and challenges in using web technologies. Students will learn the latest web standards (HTML5 and CSS3) and image manipulation techniques to create research-focused web pages, together with the theory of current techniques like responsive design for different devices. Students will also learn to perform user-focused requirements analysis, plan and manage web development, design and test interface prototypes and implement content-rich web resources from inception to final publication. In doing so, they will gain basic experience in many of the ‘roles’ emerging on the web today, both in research and professional contexts.
