The Advanced Certificate in Conservation and Digital Curation features hands-on experiential learning in which students work in conservation labs and on digital curation projects in NYC’s leading institutions,such as Brooklyn Museum, Brooklyn Historical Society, Brooklyn Public Library, Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Frick Art Reference Library, MoMA and Brooklyn Historical Society, among others. The program is designed to meet the needs of today’s information society where conservation and digital curation have become inextricably linked through the use of digital tools and emerging technologies used for conservation of rare books, manuscripts, art on paper, photography, film and video, and the digital curation of collections and exhibitions focusing on their organization, description, access, digitization, and use.

This course will provide a historical foundation and critical framework for evaluating digital information. The class incorporates computer history, digital preservation theory. And strategic planning methods to provide students with the tools and knowledge that are critical for running libraries, archives and museums. 

This course will cover all aspects of visual resources management, description, access, and curatorship. Keeping in mind how best to serve the needs of users for discovery and access of visual materials, particularly in digital formats, the course will be geared toward the acquisition of practical knowledge and cover such topics as: managing legacy collections and metadata in analog and digital formats; collection development; metadata schemas, content standards and authorities for art and non-art images; interface and database design considerations; digital asset management and preservation workflows; and the history and future of careers in visual resources readings, lectures, and discussion will be augmented with hands-on assignments using actual image resources and cataloging tools, as well as a final project of a larger scope that can either take a theoretical or practical approach to the material covered in the course. 
This course includes the study of the organizational transitions and culture changes required for successful program implementation, multiple types of technology and their roles in the management of electronic records, current practices in the management of electronic records in business applications, e-mail, instant messaging, websites, and desktop computers and preservation of digital records. Also covered are electronic record system inventories and implementation of retention and disposition systems for documentation management repositories, databases, e-mail, and Web content. 
This course examines principles and practices for enhancing access to cultural heritage materials and making digital content easier to find and use. Studentswill be provided the opportunity to explore, analyze, and evaluate state-of-the-art and emerging trends in the description and access of digital heritage collection in libraries, archives, and museums. The goal of this course is to introduce students to the range of theoretical and practical issues relates to heritage data organization. 
Covers current issues and topics. New or experimental courses are taught several times to assess the need for them in the regular curriculum.

This class is a combination of theoretical, practical and hands-on approaches to digital library creation. Topics will include metadata creation, image capture, archival storage and Web presentation. Students will learn about the theories behind the practices that they will implement, and will gain an understanding about the administrative issues associated with the successful implementation of a digitization project. 
From film, video, to born digital, moving image and sound recordings have compelled users since their advent in the late 19th century. Today, many archives housed at universities or non profit institutions act to preserve the moving image record. However, the fragility of this medium (particularly the magnetic medium that hold sound and video), combined with the preservation needs of today's born digital works (such as independent documentaries), are questioning our collective ability to preserve this work. This class will work to combat this trend by focusing on the theoretical and practical aspects related to archiving moving image and sound recording, with a particular focus on digitization and born-digital assets. 
Covers current issues and topics. New or experimental courses are taught several times to assess the need for them in the regular curriculum.

