Students may declare a concentration in one of six areas: archival studies, competitive intelligence and knowledge management, digital curation, digital libraries, library and information services, school library media* and youth services.These concentrations are optional and will appear on the student's transcript. Except for the school library media concentration, the concentrations consist of 5 courses, 3-4 required and 1-2 chosen from a limited list of courses relevant to the topic area. The remaining 12.0 credits are free electives, in which students can elect to take any other INFO courses that have not been taken as a concentration elective course. Digital Curation focuses on the active management and preservation of digital resources throughout the lifecycle, supporting the needs of current and future researchers. The rapid expansion of digital information in all disciplines has created a growing need for information professionals who can plan and implement projects to create, select, maintain, preserve, provide access, and add value to digital resources in a variety of institutional settings. This concentration meets the needs of students planning careers in a wide range of settings and complements the concentrations in Digital Libraries and Archival Studies. The concentration addresses the growing importance of digital information in all environments.

Provides an introduction to the theory and practice of archives, including an overview relating to the elements of an archival program and the role and work of archivists. Focuses on the functions of the archives, such as acquisition, appraisal, arrangement and description, preservation, reference, outreach, and technology in archives.
This course introduces digital curation as a function of archives, museums, and organizations or research projects that manage information for the purposes of preservation and re-use. It introduces concepts fundamental to the practice of digital curation, as well as offering case studies of real-world curation programs. It also includes discussions of digital curation in comparison to other cultural heritage activities, new trends in curation and preservation, and curation tools.
Explores concepts, principles, and practice for preserving digital information resources. Topics include selection, organization, and access for materials in trusted repositories. Both technological and policy perspectives are addressed.