"Curating digital materials so as to ensure their continued access has emerged as a major initiative for information organizations such as libraries, archives and businesses. Providing long-term access to digital materials has a number of challenges. Digital materials require constant and perpetual maintenance. Technologies change, equipment ages and software is superseded. Digital materials are not fixed and can easily be changed, either intentionally or unintentionally. The GSLIS Certificate in Digital Curation prepares students to curate digital materials in knowledge organizations.
The GSLIS Certificate in Digital Curation provides:
A theoretical foundation of the technical and social aspects of curating digital materials including the environments in which digital objects exist, the possible strategies for preservation, and curation lifecycles 
A practical foundation which includes evaluating the curation needs of digital materials, understanding specific technical issues of curation, developing curation plans for digital materials, and creating digital materials for long term preservation.
Students may combine this certificate with other coursework toward the completion of the Master of Professional Studies. The certificate is offered for students currently pursuing an MLIS at the Graduate School of Library and Information Science (GSLIS) or to returning students who want to add the specialization to a completed Dominican MLIS degree or its equivalent from an ALA-accredited graduate library program. Candidates work in collaboration with a faculty advisor to shape a plan of study.
Certificate completion requires 18 graduate credit hours."

Introduces students to the principles of archival work and practice. Students articulate an intellectual framework for identifying, describing, and evaluating archival records, documents and materials. They learn the principles, concepts and methods used in archival appraisal, acquisition, arrangement, description, reference and outreach, access and advocacy. This course also introduces students to the history of the archival profession and the value of archival records and repositories in society.
This course will provide a comprehensive and practical introduction to metadata for digital collections. The course will provide students knowledge of the kinds and uses of metadata commonly found in digital collections. Students will learn about and use specific schema, such as Dublin Core, MODS, and VRA Core, to describe and organize digital resources. The course will also provide an overview of XML, linked data, and metadata interoperability, quality, and sharing. 
Increasingly, libraries, information centers, archives, museums and other information-based organizations are becoming repositories for digital collections and digital objects. Preserving digital materials has emerged as a major initiative for these organizations. This course will provide an overview of the research in curating and preserving digital data, will provide practical experience in working with digital materials and will develop the skills necessary to create curation plans for digital materials.