This is a graduate certificate to prepare professionals for the curation of digital collections. Upon completion of the course of study, students should have an understanding of the information technology considerations associated with digital information; recognize and be able to articulate the requirements for professionally-responsible curation of digital information; and be able to apply this knowledge to practical digital curation situations. Graduates will find careers in a wide range of institutions including libraries, archives, and museums as well as corporations and government agencies. There is an increasing need for professionals who have the ability to plan, manage and implement practices that ensure the long-term integrity and use of resources that are created in digital form. This includes information professionals who are charged with digital collections, as well as those working within data-intensive jobs that have curation requirements (e.g. scientists, analysts, public officials). To complete the certificate, students to take five classes (15 credits) in addition to those required for the degree, three of which must count only toward the Certificate and two of which can be counted toward both the MSIS/MSLS and the Certificate. The Graduate Certificate requires the completion of five courses. Forty percent of the credits required for the Graduate Certificate in Digital Curation can overlap with courses used for either the MSLS or MSIS degrees. Graduate students outside of SILS (e.g., School of Government, School of Journalism, etc.) who are in good standing in their programs can earn the certificate, but they will need to complete all five of the specified courses. The student is expected to complete a significant project in the area of digital curation. This can be satisfied by (1) successfully completing a Master’s project/paper in the area of digital curation; or (2) successfully completing a professional field experience working on a digital curation-related capacity in a practice setting. The work to satisfy these requirements must be approved by the director of the SILS Digital Curation Certificate program, Dr. Helen Tibbo. Past settings for professional field experiences at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill include the Odum Institute for Research in Social Science; ibiblio.org; Information Technology Services; and the University Library, including the University Archives and the Carolina Digital Library and Archives. Many other opportunities exist through the Triangle, including Duke University, North Carolina Department of Cultural Resources, North Carolina State University, and regional information technology companies.

Prepares students to be conversant with information technologies that underlie digital collections in order to evaluate the work of developers, delegate tasks, write requests for proposals, and establish policies and procedures. Teaches students how to think about information technology systems and recognize and manage interdependencies between parts of the systems.
Explores relationships between new information and communication technologies and organizational efforts to define, identify, control, manage, and preserve records. Considers the importance of organizational, institutional and technological factors in determining appropriate recordkeeping strategies.
Survey of the principles, techniques, and issues in the acquisition, management, and administration of records, manuscripts, archives, and other cultural and documentary resources in paper, electronic, and other media formats.
Introduction to the systems approach to the design and development of information systems. Methods and tools for the analysis and modeling of system functionality (e.g., structured analysis) and data represented in the system (e.g., object-oriented analysis) are studied. Undergraduates must have taken INLS 382
Identification, provision, and evaluation of resources to meet primary needs of clientele in different institutional environments.
Explores the history, theories, techniques, and methods that archivists use to identify documents and other materials of enduring value for long-term preservation. 
Focuses on best practices for the creation, provision, and long-term preservation of digital entities. Topics include digitization technologies; standards and quality control: digital asset management; grant writing; and metadata.