The Digital Curation and Data Management Graduate Academic Certificate (GAC) prepares students and practicing information professionals with the competencies (i.e., knowledge, skills, and abilities) for the emerging digital curation and data management workforce. It also prepares students to qualify for and excel in the evolving opportunities in digital curation and data management. The curriculum for this Certificate comprises four online courses that provide the conceptual foundation and application experiences to develop a defined set of competencies needed to address management, curation, preservation, and stewardship of digital data and information. Students will learn both fundamental concepts and practical skills needed to perform essential job functions that are relevant to digital curation and data management. The courses provide students hands-on experiences with technologies and applications in a virtual lab setting to develop the necessary technical competencies. The Graduate Academic Certificate program is intended for at least three primary audiences:  Library and information sciences students: Students who are currently pursuing a Master’s degree in the Department of Library and Information Sciences at the University of North Texas. Students can earn the certificate while completing the Master’s degree. Graduate students in disciplines who may be responsible for research data management: More and more disciplines work with digital data and information in research activities, and current graduate students may be responsible for managing and curating such data. These graduate students will benefit from the competencies they develop through this certificate. Post-Masters Library and Information Science Professionals: Working professionals who want to re-tool and develop expertise in digital curation and data management by taking additional graduate level courses to receive an academic credential.

INFO 5841 Digital Curation Fundamentals. 3 hours. This course introduces fundamental concepts, practices, procedures, processes, and vocabulary for the entire lifecycle of digital materials from creation through appraisal, ingest, and storage, to access and reuse. It covers: history and background; concepts and principles; community standards and practices; challenges and issues; and basic techniques for curating and managing digital data.
INFO 5842 Digital Curation Tools and Applications. 3 hours. This course covers the technical infrastructure including systems and services necessary for digital curation. In particular, it focuses on techniques, tools, and applications for curating digital data. Topics covered include creating and executing an action plan for archiving digital data (assets or information), deciding what to store, consolidating multiple file versions, and creating metadata. It explores institutional and disciplinary repositories and underlying technical platforms including DSpace, Fedora Commons, and EPrints.
INFO 5843 Preservation Planning and Implementation for Digital Curation. 3 hours. This course provides students an opportunity to develop a plan for preservation for the lifecycle of a set of digital materials. Students will apply digital curation concepts and models to understand preservation planning processes and use various tools and applications to implement the plan on the selected digital objects.
INFO 5844 Advanced Topics in Digital Curation. 3 hours.  This course seeks to integrate and expand students’ knowledge of concepts and techniques of digital curation acquired in the prerequisite courses. It will be project-oriented along with seminar-type sessions to address real-world problems and advanced topics of digital curation.