The course has relevance to multiple industries including: business data management, cultural and heritage organizations, the library and information science sector (including academic research data management) and public sector data management. The course has been developed in close consultation with leading Digital Curation practitioners. Students benefit from guest presentations and opportunities to engage with relevant organisations to develop professional practices. The Department of Information Management is an iSchool -  the world's leading group of Information Science departments.
To enable the student to evaluate the techniques of representation and organization of recorded knowledge and to apply them in a professional environment.
To introduce the student to the key principles and theories of Digital Curation.
To equip students with an understanding of project management and apply this to the digital curation context.
The aim of this module is to provide an understanding of digital curation technologies and to enable students to evaluate these from a range of perspectives.

To provide the student with an ability to identify and utilise appropriate strategies and techniques for the purpose of individual investigations and research in professional development and practice.
To develop knowledge and understanding of managing user participation and engagement with digital assets
To provide students with the ability to address the legal and ethical frameworks necessary for maintaining the quality and integrity of information and the knowledge to apply these within the context of Digital Curation.
To provide students with experience of the use of appropriate software for storage, retrieval and provision of access to digital resources. To enable students to evaluate and reflect critically on the suitability of alternative methodologies for the provision of a digital curation service.

To enable the student to extend and apply their subject knowledge and their knowledge of research methods by means of the independent investigation of a topic with a relevant field.
To undertake a professional digital curation project which develops a toolkit, pilot or solution to a specific problem or opportunity. To reflect and report on the process and results within a prescribed time frame.