The Archives and Digital Curation specialization focuses on the creation, management and use, long-term preservation, and current and future access to records and information, both analog, and digital, in a variety of disciplines and sectors of the economy. Information is at the very heart of a modern society’s ability to learn, conduct business, recreate, and manage complex scientific, technological, industrial, and information infrastructures. It is a societal imperative that there be qualified professionals with the technical, intellectual, and social awareness required to manage complex collections of analog, born-digital, or digitized materials in a variety of organizational settings. Access to information is essential for a vibrant and healthy democracy. Archivists, data curation managers and specialists, and other information professionals assist citizens seeking to assert their legal rights, hold public officials accountable and understand the documentary heritage of their community. In a diverse and multi-cultural world, access to records and information is a right that information professionals help to ensure. The challenges (technological, professional, and political) are great but the rewards are even greater. Students graduating from this specialization will have the academic, technical, and practical skills to work in diverse organizational settings such as the commercial sector, cultural heritage organizations, the digital arts and humanities, and scientific research and development. Students will master core competencies to manage the records life cycle and will demonstrate mastery in hands-on field study opportunities.

An introduction to the skills necessary to interact directly with individuals through the exploration of user behavior theory, strategies to locate and evaluate information from print and electronic resources, and policies and procedures to ensure that all individuals can become information literate.
Overview of the principles, practices, and techniques required for effective leadership and management. The innovative strategies, management responsibilities, and skills needed to achieve and sustain high organizational performance in information-based cultural institutions.
Foundations of acquiring and managing collections, information structures, indexing and discovery systems needed by information professionals. An introduction to the theoretical concepts, trends, systems, and technologies central to the information field.
Critical analysis of roles of information professions and institutions in integrating theory, methods, practice, policies, and values of the field, and applying them to the design of future information systems and services.

Overview of the principles, practices, and applications in the archival and digital curation fields.

Evolving conceptualization of privacy and security issues in light of technological developments in the 21st century. Analysis of legal, ethical, design, and socially constructed challenges that organizations and individuals face when developing privacy and security solutions.
Nature, structure, development and application of information policy. Interactions of social objectives, stakeholders, technology and other forces that shape policy decisions.
Discussion of strategies to address intellectual property, privacy, security and other policy concerns raised by the curation of digital records and data.

An introduction to computer programming intended for students with no previous programming experience. Topics include fundamentals of programming and current trends in user interface implementation that are relevant to information professionals.
Principles of user-oriented database design. Requirements analysis. Data modelling. Data integrity and security and multi-user databases. Implementing an information system using a database management system (DBMS).
Management of and technology for application of digital curation principles in specific settings. Characteristics, representation, conversion, and preservation of digital objects. Application of standards for digitization, description, and preservation. Planning for sustainability, risk mitigation and disaster recovery.

An overview of the principles, practices, and current debates in the management, care and representation of digital artifacts in libraries, archives, and museums.
Management of and technology for application of digital curation principles in specific settings. Characteristics, representation, conversion, and preservation of digital objects. Application of standards for digitization, description, and preservation. Planning for sustainability, risk mitigation and disaster recovery.
Issues and practices regarding digitization of analog materials and preservation of digital materials, both digitized and born digital.
