The Masters in Digital Curation is designed to train you in the enhanced skills required for collecting and curating electronic information and preparing it for use by individuals and organizations. This Masters in Digital Curation will train you in the complexities of digital asset management. You will master the policies, procedures and governance required to ensure the integrity of digital material over time, and you will graduate with the skills and experience to handle information for any size of organisation, be it national, governmental or international. In addition to subject-specific instruction, you will also be trained in mediation so that you can manage the dialogue between stakeholders in the new digital information ecology. You will also be equipped with conventional skills in archive administration and in the scientific processes of information curation. This unique combination of disciplines and skills will prepare you for managerial and strategic roles in both academic and professional contexts. In addition to subject-specific skills and knowledge, you will have the opportunity to undertake personal development and develop a set of widely-applicable professional skills to help you in any workplace – information-related or otherwise. On completion of this course your general employability will be greatly enhanced to give you the best possible chance of successful entry into your chosen career path.
This module is concerned with the core professional activities for Archivists of collection development and description. It will enable students to understand the principles which underpin collection development, and the policies and processes required for this to be undertaken in an organised and responsible manner. Students will consider the principles of archival description and the standards and technologies which support the creation of usable finding-aids, and digital surrogates of archival material. Maintaining accessibility to these over the long-term will also be addressed.
In Semester 1 students of this module will explore and critically assess ways in which digital information is created, acquired, organised and presented within digital libraries so as to support its discovery and delivery. In semester 2 students will be provided with the theoretical knowledge and skills required to ensure the long-term accessibility to such information through the development and administration of a digital preservation programme.
Information and knowledge architecture is a requirement for a robust underpinning for technological developments in how we treat information in our society and how we engage tactically with information and knowledge in organisation. A useful definition of Information Architecture is: ?'rn emerging discipline and community of practice focusing on bringing principles of design and architecture to the digital landscape.? (Rosenfield, L.; Peter, M. Information Architecture for the World Wide Web: Designing Large-Scale Web Sites; O'reilly & Associates, Inc.:Sebastopol, CA, 2002.).
The module initially includes generic content related to systems analysis and design. It has content based on IL33010 supplemented by seminars for postgraduate students, additional VLE content and tools, as well as further use of computer software. The content later focuses on specific system types and functions in organisations based on ILM4810. This includes decision support tools and system evaluation.
The module addresses the principles of Records and Information Governance in the context of modern organisations and the digital landscape. Students obtain a grounding that balances theory and practice, with specific emphasis on the impact of technology. The linking of computer networks and the divergence of the global market places growing pressure on organisations to respond. This module prepares records, archives and information managers to take a pivotal role in organisational policy-making, joining ranks with other specialists to address the issues of governance, accountability and compliance.
This module is concerned with the core professional activities for Archivists of collection development and description. It will enable students to understand the principles which underpin collection development, and the policies and processes required for this to be undertaken in an organised and responsible manner. Students will consider the principles of archival description and the standards and technologies which support the creation of usable finding-aids, and digital surrogates of archival material. Maintaining accessibility to these over the long-term will also be addressed.
In Semester 1 students of this module will explore and critically assess ways in which digital information is created, acquired, organised and presented within digital libraries so as to support its discovery and delivery. In semester 2 students will be provided with the theoretical knowledge and skills required to ensure the long-term accessibility to such information through the development and administration of a digital preservation programme.